## Understand Governance Elements and Processes
---
#security_principles #cc #isc2
Table of contents >>> [[Certified in CyberSecurity]]
Next Page >>> [[1.5 Module - Security Principles]]
Previous page >>> [[1.3 Module - Security Principles]]


## How are regulations, standards, policies and procedures related?

- **Procedures** - define the explicit, repeatable activities necessary to accomplish a specific task or set of tasks. They provide supporting data, decision criteria or other explicit knowledge needed to perform each task. Procedures can address one-time or infrequent actions or common, regular occurrences.
---
- **Policies** - Policy is informed by applicable law(s) and specifies which standards and guidelines the organization will follow. *Policy is broad, but not detailed;* it establishes context and sets out strategic direction and priorities. Governance policies are used to moderate and control decision-making, to ensure compliance when necessary and to guide the creation and implementation of other policies. Different policies can be applied to different aspects of the organisation such as data handling or security of personnel on the premises. 
- **Policies** are implemented, or carried out, by people; for that, someone must expand the policies from statements of intent and direction into step-by-step instructions, or procedures.
- *Are the highest-level governance documents in an organization,* usually approved and issued by management, usually to support a compliance initiative.
---
- **Standards** - are *frameworks* used by *governance* teams that introduce policies and procedures in support of regulations.
	- **International Organization for Standardisation** (*ISO*) - develops international standards on a variety of technical issues inc. information security as well as encryption standards. They provide input from international community such as experts in their own fields but also collaborate with **Electro-technical commission** (*IEC*) and **International Telecommunication Union** *(ITU*).
	- **National Institute of Standards and Technology** (*NIST*) - technical standards in IT U.S which also are considered recommended standards to industries worldwide. Input is gathered from industry.
	- **Internet Engineering Task Force** (*IETF*) - standards in communication protocols that enable people speaking different languages connect systems across borders. They define protocols like IP, TPC and it's combined effort of network designers, operators, vendors and researchers.
	-  **Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers** (*IEEE*) - organisation that sets standards for telecommunication or computer engineering.
---
- **Regulations** - commonly issued in the form of a law, usually the ***government*** and typically non-compliance will result in penalties and fines.
	- **Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act** (*HIPAA*) 1966 - federal law in the USA that aims to protect health information privacy and provides with standards with healthcare transactions.
	- **General Data Protection Regulations** (*GDPR*) 2016 - personal information (*PII*) is deemed to be a human right therefore companies must apply appropriate strategies to protect, gather or share information.
	- Businesses must consider different laws especially the international because they may vary between each other. Therefore when company sets its own standards, they must include *laws on national, regional or local levels*.

##### Example:
The Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is a federal **LAW / REGULATION** in the United States that requires certain actions be taken to protect health information. Many organizations use published frameworks, or  **STANDARDS**, to guide the organizational **POLCIES**  that support the compliance effort.  Many departments or workgroups within the organization implement your **PROCEDURES** that detail how they complete day-to-day tasks while remaining compliant.
