## Incident Response
---
#ir_bcm_cos  #cc
Table of contents >>> [[0.Targets]]
Previous page >>> [[1.6 Module - Security Principles]]
Next Page >>> [[Module 2.1  - ]]

## Terminology Basics
The priority of incident response is to protect life, health and safety. However the goal off
incident response is to be prepared by having *"crisis management" - policy or response plan with procedures*.
However, if the event has the potential to disrupt the business’s mission, then it is called an incident. Every organization must have an  **incident response** **plan** that will help preserve business viability and survival.
The incident response process is aimed at **reducing the impact of an incident** so the organization can resume the interrupted operations as soon as possible.

- **Breach** is loss, compromise unauthorized disclosure/acquisition of data where unauthorized user gains access to *PII* for any other use than intended.
- **Event** is a observable occurrence in the network or system.
- **Exploit** - attacks system vulnerabilities.
- **Incident** - an event that potentially jeopardizes *CIA* triads.
- **Intrusion** - someone is trying to gain/gained access to a system or system resources without authorization.
- **Threat** - can adversely impact organization.
- **Vulnerability** - Weakness in information system, system security procedures, internal controls or implementation that could be exploited by a threat source.
- **Zero Day** - unknown vulnerability with potential of exploitation without risk of detection.

