## Incident Response
---
#IRBCDR  #cc #isc2
Table of contents >>> [[Certified in CyberSecurity]]
Previous page >>> [[1.6 Module - Security Principles]]
Next Page >>> [[2.2 Module  - IRBCDR]]

## What is Incident Response (IR)
The priority of incident response is to protect life, health and safety. However the goal off
incident response is to be prepared by having *"crisis management" - policy or response plan with procedures*.
However, if the event has the potential to disrupt the business’s mission, then it is called an incident. Every organization must have an  **incident response** **plan** that will help preserve business viability and survival.
The incident response process is aimed at **reducing the impact of an incident** so the organization can resume the interrupted operations as soon as possible.

- **Breach** is loss, compromise unauthorized disclosure/acquisition of data where unauthorized user gains access to *PII* for any other use than intended.
- **Event** is a observable occurrence in the network or system.
- **Exploit** - attacks system vulnerabilities.
- **Incident** - an event that potentially jeopardizes *CIA* triads.
- **Intrusion** - someone is trying to gain/gained access to a system or system resources without authorization.
- **Threat** - can adversely impact organization.
- **Vulnerability** - Weakness in information system, system security procedures, internal controls or implementation that could be exploited by a threat source.
- **Zero Day** - unknown vulnerability with potential of exploitation without risk of detection.

## Incident Response Components
----
**Preparation**
- Develop a policy approved by management.
- Identify critical data and systems (single points of failure).
- Train stuff on incident response.
- Practice incident identification (first response)
- Identify roles and responsibilities.
- Coordination plan between the stakeholders
---- 
**Detection and Analysis**
- Monitor all possible attack vectors.
- Analyse incident using data and threat intelligence.
- Prioritize incident response.
- Standardise incident documentation.
---
**Containment**
- Gather all evidence.
- Choose containment strategy.
-  Identify the attacker.
- Isolate the attack.
---
**Post-incident activity**
- Document all lessons learned.
- Identify the evidence that may need to be retained.

---
**SOC - Security Operations Center** is a centrlised organisational  function  that monitors detects and analyses events and networks or system to prevent or resolve issues before they result in business disruption.
Team members of SOC:
	- Representative(s) of senior management
	- Information security professionals
	- Legal representatives
	- Public affairs/communications representatives
	- Engineering representatives (system and network)

 Teams investigating any computer security incidents are commonly known as **computer incident response teams (CIRTs)** or **computer security incident response teams (CSIRTs)**. Their responsibilities are:
	- Determine the amount and scope of damage caused by the incident.
	- Determine whether any confidential information was compromised during the incident.
	- Implement any necessary recovery procedures to restore security and recover from incident-related damage.
	- Supervise the implementation of any additional security measures necessary to improve security and prevent recurrence of the incident.