# Access Control Concepts
---
#access_control  #cc
Table of contents >>> [[0.Targets]]
Previous page >>> [[3.1 Module  - Access Control]]
Next Page >>> [[3.3 Module  - Access Control]]

## What are physical security controls?
---
- **Physical access controls** are items you can physically touch. This could be used through mechanisms that can: monitor, prevent, detect any adversary actions.
- The reason why we have physical controls to protect the assets and most importantly the people via locks, badges, fences or any other tangible means.

## Types of physical control
---
- **Monitoring** - The use of physical controls should be monitored like entering doors. Personnel, equipment, entering/leaving as well as auditing/logging should be also monitored. Examples:
	- **Cameras** - provide flexible method of surveillance. They can be deterrent to criminal activity and can detect other activities if combined with sensors.
	- **Alarm systems** - found on doors and windows in homes and office buildings. In their simplest form, they are designed to alert the appropriate personnel when a door or window is opened unexpectedly. Also they can include fire alarms, panic buttons
	- **Security guards** - effective way of discouraging potential thefts or from unauthorized personnel from accessing various parts of the organisation or any illegal activity.
	- **Logs** - physical logs such as sign in sheet or event log created by the system. They can be used for security and business reasons. Logs should be kept safe and private. Logs should be checked often and deleted when not needed. Logs can show if something is wrong or unusual. Different businesses have different rules for keeping logs.