# Network Security
---
#network_security  #cc #isc2
Table of contents >>> [[0.Targets]]
Previous page >>> [[4.1 Module  - Network Security]]
Next Page >>> [[4.3 Module - Network Security]]
## Types of threats
---
- **Spoofing** - attack with the goal of accessing target system with use of falsified identity.
- **Phishing** - misdirect legitimate users through malicious websites (links)
- **DOS/DDOS** - network consumption attack that prevents victim from accessing their system
- **Virus** - spreads quickly into other devices with the "help" of a user with adversary goal.
- **Worm** - spread into other devices without user consent.
- **Trojan** - often hidden in actual software is a piece of code that carries malicious behind the scenes payload that has the potential to wreak havoc on system or network. For example, ransomware often uses a Trojan to infect a target machine and then uses encryption technology to encrypt documents.
- **On-path Attack** *MITM* - place themselves between two devices (often a web browser and a web server intercept or modify communications between the two
- **Side-channel** - passive attack that focuses on monitoring the target device such as power monitoring, timing and fault analysis attacks.
- **Advanced Persistent Threat** (*APT*) - high level of technical and operational sophistication over months or years. Organised by groups of attackers.
- **Insider threat** - arise from individual that are trusted by organisation. Sometimes are not willing participants
- **Malware** - program inserted to the system usually covertly with intent of compromising CIA.
- **Ransomware** - Malware used for the purpose of facilitating a ransom attack. They used cryptography on files and offer key for money to them.