## Understand Data Security
---
#security_operations  #cc #isc2
Table of contents >>> [[0.Targets]]
Previous page >>> [[5.2 Module - Security Operations]]
Next Page >>> [[5.4 Module - Security Operations]]

## Understand Best Practice Security Policies
---
An organization’s security policies define what “security” means to that organization, which in almost all cases reflects the tradeoff between security, operability, affordability and potential risk impacts. Security policies express or impose behavioral or other constraints on the system and its use. Well-designed systems operating within these constraints should reduce the potential of security breaches to an acceptable level. 

[Security governance](https://learn.isc2.org/d2l/le/enhancedSequenceViewer/9541?url=https%3A%2F%2Fbabe4806-440f-4af0-91ac-9d7c60651b42.sequences.api.brightspace.com%2F9541%2Factivity%2F403465%3FfilterOnDatesAndDepth%3D1# "The entirety of the policies, roles, and processes the organization uses to make security decisions in an organization.") that does not align properly with organizational goals can lead to implementation of security policies and decisions that unnecessarily inhibit productivity, impose undue costs and hinder strategic intent.

# Common Security Policies

All policies must support any regulatory and contractual obligations of the organization.  Sometimes it can be challenging to ensure the policy encompasses all requirements while remaining simple enough for users to understand. 

Here are six common security-related policies that exist in most organizations.

Appropriate use of data: This aspect of the policy defines whether data is for use within the company, is restricted for use by only certain roles or can be made public to anyone outside the organization. In addition, some data has associated legal usage definitions. The organization’s policy should spell out any such restrictions or refer to the legal definitions as required. Proper data classification also helps the organization comply with pertinent laws and regulations. For example, classifying credit card data as confidential can help ensure compliance with the PCI DSS. One of the requirements of this standard is to encrypt credit card information. Data owners who correctly defined the encryption aspect of their organization’s data classification policy will require that the data be encrypted according to the specifications defined in this standard.

Every organization should have a password policy in place that defines expectations of systems and users. The password policy should describe senior leadership's commitment to ensuring secure access to data, outline any standards that the organization has selected for password formulation, and identify who is designated to enforce and validate the policy.

The acceptable use policy (AUP) defines acceptable use of the organization’s network and computer systems and can help protect the organization from legal action. It should detail the appropriate and approved usage of the organization’s assets, including the IT environment, devices and data. Each employee (or anyone having access to the organization’s assets) should be required to sign a copy of the AUP, preferably in the presence of another employee of the organization, and both parties should keep a copy of the signed AUP. 

Policy aspects commonly included in AUPs: 

- Data access
- System access
- Data disclosure
- Passwords
- Data retention
- Internet usage
- Company device usage

An organization may allow workers to acquire equipment of their choosing and use personally owned equipment for business (and personal) use. This is sometimes called bring your own device (BYOD). Another option is to present the teleworker or employee with a list of approved equipment and require the employee to select one of the products on the trusted list. 
Letting employees choose the device that is most comfortable for them may be good for employee morale, but it presents additional challenges for the security professional because it means the organization loses some control over standardization and privacy. If employees are allowed to use their phones and laptops for both personal and business use, this can pose a challenge if, for example, the device has to be examined for a forensic audit. It can be hard to ensure that the device is configured securely and does not have any backdoors or other vulnerabilities that could be used to access organizational data or systems. 
All employees must read and agree to adhere to this policy before any access to the systems, network and/or data is allowed. If and when the workforce grows, so too will the problems with BYOD. Certainly, the appropriate tools are going to be necessary to manage the use of and security around BYOD devices and usage. The organization needs to establish clear user expectations and set the appropriate business rules

Often, personnel have access to personally identifiable information (PII) (also referred to as electronic protected health information [ePHI] in the health industry). It is imperative that the organization documents that the personnel understand and acknowledge the organization’s policies and procedures for handling of that type of information and are made aware of the legal repercussions of handling such sensitive data. This type of documentation is similar to the AUP but is specific to privacy-related data. 
The organization’s privacy policy should stipulate which information is considered PII/ePHI, the appropriate handling procedures and mechanisms used by the organization, how the user is expected to perform in accordance with the stated policy and procedures, any enforcement mechanisms and punitive measures for failure to comply as well as references to applicable regulations and legislation to which the organization is subject. This can include national and international laws, such as the GDPR in the EU and Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) in Canada; laws for specific industries in certain countries such as HIPAA and Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLBA); or local laws in which the organization operates. 
The organization should also create a public document that explains how private information is used, both internally and externally. For example, it may be required that a medical provider present patients with a description of how the provider will protect their information (or a reference to where they can find this description, such as the provider’s website).

Change management is the discipline of transitioning from the current state to a future state. It consists of three major activities: deciding to change, making the change, and confirming that the change has been correctly accomplished. Change management focuses on making the decision to change and results in the approvals to systems support teams, developers and end users to start making the directed alterations.  
Throughout the system life cycle, changes made to the system, its individual components and its operating environment all have the capability to introduce new vulnerabilities and thus undermine the security of the enterprise. Change management requires a process to implement the necessary changes so they do not adversely affect business operations.