---
Date: 2024-01-07T15:46:00
Summary:
---
#HTB #linux 
Table of contents >>> [[Hack The Box]]
Previous page >>> [[1.3 Linux Fundamentals - System Management]]

# Network configuration
Network access control **(NAC)** is a critical part of network configuration. There are different NAC technologies:
- Discretionary access control (**DAC**) Owner/s decide who has the access
- Mandatory access control (**MAC**) - hierarchy access
- Role-based access control (**RBAC**) - prepared roles have different access polices.

**NAC enforcement** - SELinux polices, configuring AppArmour profiles, TCP wrappers for access control.
**Monitoring traffic** - syslog, syslog, ss, lsof, ELK stack
**Testing** - ping, nslookup, nmap

# Configuring network interface

Displaying all networking devices:

**ip**:
```shell-session
cry0l1t3@htb:~$ ip addr
```

**Activating network interface:**
```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo ip link set eth0 up
```

**Assign IP Address to an interface**:
```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.2
```

**Assign a netmask to an interface**:
```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo ifconfig eth0 netmask 255.255.255.0
```

`/etc/resolv.conf` file is the DNS server infromation
`/etc/network/uinterfaces` file defines network interfaces for linux. It should look something like this:
```txt
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
  address 192.168.1.2
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  gateway 192.168.1.1
  dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```

By setting the `eth0` network interface to use a static IP address of `192.168.1.2`, with a netmask of `255.255.255.0` and a default gateway of `192.168.1.1`, we can ensure that your network connection remains stable and reliable. Additionally, by specifying DNS servers of `8.8.8.8` and `8.8.4.4`, we can ensure that our computer can easily access the internet and resolve domain names. Once we have made these changes to the configuration file, saving the file and exiting the editor is important. After that, we must restart the networking service to apply the changes.

**Restart networking service**
```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo systemctl restart networking
```
