---
Date: 2024-01-07T15:46:00
Summary:
---
#HTB #linux #prerequisites 
Table of contents >>> [[Hack The Box]]
Previous page >>> [[1.3 Linux Fundamentals - System Management]]

# Network configuration
Network access control **(NAC)** is a critical part of network configuration. There are different NAC technologies:
- Discretionary access control (**DAC**) Owner/s decide who has the access
- Mandatory access control (**MAC**) - hierarchy access
- Role-based access control (**RBAC**) - prepared roles have different access polices.

**NAC enforcement** - SELinux polices, configuring AppArmour profiles, TCP wrappers for access control.
**Monitoring traffic** - syslog, syslog, ss, lsof, ELK stack
**Testing** - ping, nslookup, nmap

# Configuring network interface

Displaying all networking devices:

**ip**:

```shell-session
cry0l1t3@htb:~$ ip addr
```

**Activating network interface:**

```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo ip link set eth0 up
```

**Assign IP Address to an interface**:

```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.2
```

**Assign a netmask to an interface**:

```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo ifconfig eth0 netmask 255.255.255.0
```

`/etc/resolv.conf` file is the DNS server infromation
`/etc/network/uinterfaces` file defines network interfaces for linux. It should look something like this:
```txt
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
  address 192.168.1.2
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  gateway 192.168.1.1
  dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```

By setting the `eth0` network interface to use a static IP address of `192.168.1.2`, with a netmask of `255.255.255.0` and a default gateway of `192.168.1.1`, we can ensure that your network connection remains stable and reliable. Additionally, by specifying DNS servers of `8.8.8.8` and `8.8.4.4`, we can ensure that our computer can easily access the internet and resolve domain names. Once we have made these changes to the configuration file, saving the file and exiting the editor is important. After that, we must restart the networking service to apply the changes.

**Restart networking service**

```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ sudo systemctl restart networking
```

**Shows IP addresses of the devices that the packets pass through**:

```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ traceroute  8.8.8.8
```

# Linux security

 `/etc/hosts.allow` 
 
```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ cat /etc/hosts.allow

# Allow access to SSH from the local network
sshd : 10.129.14.0/24

# Allow access to FTP from a specific host
ftpd : 10.129.14.10

# Allow access to Telnet from any host in the inlanefreight.local domain
telnetd : .inlanefreight.local
```

`/etc/hosts.deny`

```shell-session
lukan1u@htb[/htb]$ cat /etc/hosts.deny

# Deny access to all services from any host in the inlanefreight.com domain
ALL : .inlanefreight.com

# Deny access to SSH from a specific host
sshd : 10.129.22.22z

# Deny access to FTP from hosts with IP addresses in the range of 10.129.22.0 to 10.129.22.255
ftpd : 10.129.22.0/24
```
# Shortcuts
#### Auto-Complete

`[TAB]` - Initiates auto-complete. This will suggest to us different options based on the `STDIN` we provide. These can be specific suggestions like directories in our current working environment, commands starting with the same number of characters we already typed, or options.

---

#### Cursor Movement

`[CTRL] + A` - Move the cursor to the `beginning` of the current line.

`[CTRL] + E` - Move the cursor to the `end` of the current line.

`[CTRL] + [←]` / `[→]` - Jump at the beginning of the current/previous word.

`[ALT] + B` / `F` - Jump backward/forward one word.

---

#### Erase The Current Line

`[CTRL] + U` - Erase everything from the current position of the cursor to the `beginning` of the line.

`[Ctrl] + K` - Erase everything from the current position of the cursor to the `end` of the line.

`[Ctrl] + W` - Erase the word preceding the cursor position.

---

#### Paste Erased Contents

`[Ctrl] + Y` - Pastes the erased text or word.

---

#### Ends Task

`[CTRL] + C` - Ends the current task/process by sending the `SIGINT` signal. For example, this can be a scan that is running by a tool. If we are watching the scan, we can stop it / kill this process by using this shortcut. While not configured and developed by the tool we are using. The process will be killed without asking us for confirmation.

---

#### End-of-File (EOF)

`[CTRL] + D` - Close `STDIN` pipe that is also known as End-of-File (EOF) or End-of-Transmission.

---

#### Clear Terminal

`[CTRL] + L` - Clears the terminal. An alternative to this shortcut is the `clear` command you can type to clear our terminal.

---

#### Background a Process

`[CTRL] + Z` - Suspend the current process by sending the `SIGTSTP` signal.

---

#### Search Through Command History

`[CTRL] + R` - Search through command history for commands we typed previously that match our search patterns.

`[↑]` / `[↓]` - Go to the previous/next command in the command history.

---

#### Switch Between Applications

`[ALT] + [TAB]` - Switch between opened applications.

---

#### Zoom

`[CTRL] + [+]` - Zoom in.

`[CTRL] + [-]` - Zoom out.