---
Date: 2023-10-06T20:52:00
Summary:
---
# Program overview
---
#settings #google_cybersecurity 
Table of contents >>> [[0.Google Cybersecurity]]
Previous page >>> [[0.Google Cybersecurity]]
Next Page >>> [[1.2 Foundations of Cybersecurity]]

## What is cybersecurity
---
**Cybersecurity, or security**, is the practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.

Security protects against **external and internal threats**. An external threat is sof the organization trying to gain access to private information, networks omeone outside or devices.

Security analysts are responsible for monitoring and protecting information and systems.
- Security analyst or specialist, 
- Cybersecurity analyst or specialist, 
- Security operation center or SOC 
- analyst, Information security analyst.

*3 primary responsibilities of analysts* :
1. **Protecting computer and network systems** requires an analyst to monitor an organization's internal network. If a threat is detected, then an analyst is generally the first to respond. Analysts also often take part in exercises to  each for weaknesses in an organization's own systems.
2. **Security analysts also proactively work to prevent threats from happening in the first place.** One way they do this is by working with information technology, or IT, teams to install prevention software for the purposes of identifying risks and vulnerabilities. Analysts may also be involved in software and hardware development.
3. The last task we'll discuss is c**onducting periodic security audits.** A security audit is a review of an organization's security records, activities, and other related documents. For example, an analyst may examine in-house security issues, such as making sure that confidential information, like individual computer passwords, isn't available to all employees.

## Basic terminology
---
**Compliance** is the process of following internal company standards and external regulation such as the law which enables the organisation to avoid fines and security breaches.
**Security frameworks** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.
**Security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.
**Security posture** is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.
A **threat actor**, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.
An **internal threat** can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor _intentionally_ engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.
**Network security** is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.
**Cloud security** is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users. 
**Programming** is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks.

## Core skills for cybersecurity professionals
---
**Transferrable skills:**
- Communication
- Collaboration
- Analysis
- Problem solving (python and sql)
- Growth mindset
- Time management
- Diverse perspectives
**Technical skills:**
- Programming languages (identify error messages and automate tasks)
- Security information and event management tools **(SIEM)**
- Computer forensics 
-  Intrusion detection systems (IDSs)
- Threat landscape knowledge
- Incident response

## Why security matters?
---
Identity theft is the act of stealing personal information **PII** or **SPII** to commit fraud while impersonating a victim. And the primary objective of identity theft is financial gain.

## **Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 1**
---
**Cybersecurity (or security):** The practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation
**Cloud security:** The process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured and access to those assets is limited to authorized users
**Internal threat:** A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk
**Network security:** The practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access
**Personally identifiable information (PII):** Any information used to infer an individual’s identity
**Security posture:** An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change
**Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII):** A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines
**Technical skills:** Skills that require knowledge of specific tools, procedures, and policies 
**Threat:** Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets
**Threat actor:** Any person or group who presents a security risk
**Transferable skills:** Skills from other areas that can apply to different careers