---
Date: 2023-10-22T14:16:00
Summary:
---
#  History of cybersecurity
 #google_cybersecurity 
Table of contents >>> [[0.Google Cybersecurity]]
Previous page >>> [[1.2 Foundations of Cybersecurity]]
Next Page >>>[[1.3 Foundations of Cybersecurity]]

## Major cybersecurity attacks
---
### 1. Love letter attack
**LoveLetter** attack - targeted at the people who haven't developed healthy suspicion for unsolicited emails. A user would receive email saying "I love you" with attachment that once opened, malware would scan user's address book. It would automatically send itself to each person on the list. It also would install a program to collect user information and passwords. It affected about 45 million computers globally. First example of social engineering.
### 2. The Equifax breach
 Credit reporting agency that filed to secure their system in many ways which resulted in a large data breach. During that breach over 40% of all Americans were affected with their PII being exposed. The Equifax settled with the U.S. and paid 575mln to resolve customer complaints and cover required fines. This alerted all companies about potential about financial consequences of not securing customers data.

## Common Attacks
----
**Phishing**  - is the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software.

Types of *phishing* attacks:
- **Business email compromise** (*BEC*) - a threat actor sends an *email message* that seems to be from a known source to make a seemingly legitimate request for information, in order to obtain a financial advantage.
- **Spear phishing**  a *malicious email* attack that targets a specific user or group of users. The email seems to originate from a trusted source.
- **Whaling** a from of spear phishing. A *malicious email* attack that *target company executives* to gain access to sensitive data.
- **Vishing** is the exploitation of *electronic voice* communications (such as those in banks) to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source 
- **Smishing** is the exploitation of *text messages* to trick users in order to obtain sensitive information 


**Malware** is software designed to harm devices or networks. The primary purpose is to obtain money, or in some cases, an intelligence advantage that can be used against a person, organisation or a state.

Types of *malware* attacks:
- **Computer virus** is a malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software. It attaches to programs or files and damages the system and then it tries to spread to other computers on the network. **Viruses are all commonly known as** **malware** which is the software designed to harm devices or networks.
- **Worms** is malware that can duplicate and spread itself on it own. In contrast to virus it does not need to be downloaded by a user. It self-replicates and spreads from an already infected computer to other devices on the same network
- **Spyware** is malware that's used to gather and sell information without consent.
- **Ransomware** - a malicious attack during which threat actors encrypt and organisation's data and demand payment to restore access.


**Social engineering** - a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access or valuables. Human error is usually a result of trusting someone without question.

Types of *social engineering* attacks:
- **Social media phishing** a threat actor collect detailed information about their target from social media sites. Then they initiate an attack.
- **Watering hole attack** a threat actor compromises a website frequently visited by a specific group of users.
- **USB baiting** a threat actor strategically leaves a malware USB sticks for an employee to find and install to unknowingly infect a network.
- **Physical social engineering** a threat actor impersonates and employee, customer to obtain unauthorized access to a physical location.

*Social engineering is extremely effective* and with the bigger number of social media the risk of attack is also increasing. Although sharing personal data can be convenient, it's also a risk because:
   - **Authority** - Threat actors impersonate individual with power
   - **Intimidation** - threat actors use bullying tactics
   - **Consensus/Social proof** - because people sometimes do things that they believe many other are doing, threat actors use others' trust to pretned they are legitimate. for example pretend they have already been given access to gain someone's trust.
   - **Scarcity** - a tactic used to imply that good or services are in limited supply 
   - **Familiarity** - threat actors establish a fake emotional connection with users that can be exploited
   - **Trust** - Threat actors establish an emotional relationship with users that can be exploited time. They use this relationship to develop trust and gain personal information.
   - **Urgency** - threat actors persuade others to respond quickly and without questioning. 